In this chapter we're going to discuss a
topic that's somewhat related to
iterators, the topic of last chapter, and
that's the topic of list comprehensions.
To demonstrate how list comprehensions
work, we'll need to look at
an example, so let's open up a program,
we'll call it listcomp1.py.
Let me get that into the right frame here,
let's say
I have a list of grades; we'll just do 4
that's plenty.
Now let's say I want to curve those grades
by adding 5
points to each grade, the traditional way
to do that would be using a for loop.
So for example I would write for i in
range length in
grades, grades sub i equals grades sub i
plus 5 and then
let's display grades just to see what the
result is.
So we'll Save that file.
Then we'll run it, Listcomp1.py.
So now our grades have been increased by
five points by each grade.
The idea of a list comprehension is to
take this two statement loop and
simplify it, using the idea of for loops,
but also using the idea of iterators.
So take a look at how it would work, we
can say, grades equal grade
plus five, for grade in grades.
So the comprehensions is that we've really
condensed this for loop into one.
Expression and what we're really kind of
doing is working backwards and we're
saying for each grade in grades add five
to it and take
the result of that the four new grades and
assign it back to the list.
So, let's add a print statement here, so
we
can see the previous values, and then the
curved values.
So, let's Save the program.
And, let's run it again, let me
clear the screen.
So, there are the previous grades, 71, 81,
77,
and 84, and here are the new grades, 76
.86.82.89.
And again here's the comprehension, these
comprehensions are just shortcuts for for
loops.
Where you're still actually riding the
loop, but
we're doing it in a much more concise
manner.
That's one of the advantages of scripting
languages, over
other languages like C ++ and Java, for
example.
Scripting languages always provide some
type of
higher order means of performing a
standard
task, such as looping through a data
structure and performing some computation
on each element.
That's what a list comprehension is.
Now before we move on to list
comprehension and files, which is a topic
of
the next lesson, let's look at one more
example and comment out all this code.
Now let's say we have a list of words and
let's say they're all in upper case and I
want
to put those into lower case because of
course upper
case is so much harder to read and work
with.
Well we can write a very simple list
comprehension to do that.
By using the lower function on a word, so
it can say word dot lower for word in
words, so that for each word, in the list
of words, make it lower case, then assign
a batch.
So let's add some print statements to each
one of these,
then lets Save and run the program.
On the screen, we started out with 'NOW IS
THE TIME' in uppercase,
and after our list comprehension, we have
'now is the time' in lowercase.
And of course, we could have also written
this using the standard four loop pattern.
But I didn't really see any reason to show
you
that, because you've seen it already with
our great example.
So I went straight to the list
comprehension
to make all the words in the list
lowercase.
So again, a list comprehension is really
just a backward for loop but we're able to
write it in one single expression, as part
of one single statement.
The traditional for loop involves two
statements, at least, and several
expressions.
But here we can do it all in one
statement, and really,
if you count the comprehension inside the
brackets, really just one expression.
So that wraps up this introductory lesson
on list comprehensions.
Now lets take a look at how to do lists
comprehension's with files.